Hey there Oddlots listeners, Joe and I
are very excited to announce that we
will be hosting a live show in London on
Thursday, May 7th. Yep, that's right.
We've never been to London before. Well,
we've been to London before, but in
other capacities, we've never done a
public episode, a public show in London.
We've done them in other cities, New
York City, DC, Chicago, San Francisco,
and so forth. This will be our first
London one, and I'm really excited about
it.
>> Very exciting. So, if you want to hear
some fantastic conversations being
recorded live on stage, if you want to
hang out with Joe and me, or if you want
to hang out with other Oddlots
listeners, you should definitely save
the date for your calendar. It's going
to be at Wilton's Music Hall in East
London, again on Thursday, May 7th,
doors opening at 6:00 p.m. And the key
thing is, you know, every time we do a
live show and they sell out, people
complain like, "Oh, I didn't see the
link. I wish I would have bought them
sooner." We're going to be putting the
link in the Oddlots newsletter. So, go
find the Oddlots newsletter, just search
for subscribe to it, and the link will
be there before it's anywhere else. So,
this is your chance. Plus, if you like
Oddlots, if you like if you're listening
to the podcast, you probably really like
the newsletter. You should really
subscribe anyway. So, if you like the
podcast and so forth, subscribe to the
newsletter, get the newsletter, and get
first crack at tickets. Hope to see you
there.
>> [music]
>> Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Oddlots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
[music]
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. Joe, sometimes
sometimes I go on prediction markets
>> Uh-huh, yeah. and I see some of the
contracts being traded, and you know, we
hear the argument all the time that
there might be a real economic reason
>> Yes. why prediction markets should
exist. So, maybe, you know, maybe you
run a studio in Hollywood. And so, like,
it's actually really important who will
be in the next cast of whatever Avengers
movie is coming out.
>> But [laughter] I have a hard time
thinking that betting on whether or not
Jesus Christ is going to return to the
world is economically important, right?
>> Yeah. No, I think this is a great point.
I mean, I think you're being generous
actually with the Avengers thing. I
mean, maybe Maybe.
>> but you know, for example, there is a
market and it's actually you can track
it on the Bloomberg that says on Kalshi,
will there be a recession before 2027?
And that is at 33% right now. And that
is something that like that's amazing in
a sense that there is an instrument
where you could bet on this very
important question to investors and
express it very purely in a way that if
you were using other instruments like
stocks or bonds, you'd only be using a
proxy for it. But so, the potential
there in my mind for some of these
things is obviously quite high. Well,
you could say certainly in our current
economic environment, being able to bet
on things like is the US going to strike
Karg Island or something like that could
be actually useful if you are a large
institutional investor versus just
betting on the price of oil or the
direction of stocks
or something like that. However, I have
a hard time thinking that institutional
investors are going to flock to a
platform that contains questions that
are both is there going to be a
recession and also some completely
>> Yeah.
>> out there pop culture kind of contract.
Totally. Or, you know, obviously beyond
the pop culture, they're dominated by
sports betting and so forth. So, that's
another question. Also, you know, the
marketing tactics used by the major
prediction market companies are very
different than anything pretty different
than anything we see in traditional
futures, etc. So, I think we both Yeah,
like I do on a fully think that like
there could be legitimate use cases
where there are natural hedgers, natural
liquidity providers for some of these
like swap some of these pure binary
instruments, etc. But there are some
pretty big chicken and egg problems and
other things to like actually get there
where there's volume. You know, for
example, some of the weather related
ones. They're great. No one's betting,
you know, there's like $20,000 on some
of them. That's beneath any order of
magnitude of usefulness to any economic
or real speculative actor. That's right.
No hedge fund gets out of bed for less
than 20,000. Okay. So, I do in fact have
the perfect guest to discuss all of
this. Someone who is trying to solve
that chicken and egg problem and
actually create a prediction market that
is more geared towards institutional
investors. And we are going to be
speaking with Thomas Peterffy. He is, of
course, the founder and chairman of
Interactive Brokers. Someone who's not
just interesting from a prediction
market perspective, by the way, but
someone who has been incredibly
influential in the development of
markets globally. Absolutely. So, we're
going to get into the overall, you
>> know, market structure, AI, all that
good stuff. But we'll start with
prediction markets. So, Thomas, thank
you so much for coming on Oddlots.
Thank you very much for having me.
So, when you think about prediction
markets for institutional investors, in
your mind, what is the actual
differentiating factor between, you
know, a retail investor who maybe is
playing around a little bit on something
like Kalshi or Polymarket versus someone
with a lot of money who might be
interested in trading in size?
So, from that point of view, the
prediction market is no different than
the stock market except it addresses
much larger and more important on the
one hand, on the other hand, much
sillier and and less important
questions. So, it all depends on what
you ask. So, the stock market has
Microsoft and Nvidia,
and also has, you know, the GameStop and
other silly stocks, right? So, it is a
parallel situation. So, you cannot blame
prediction market, the mechanism itself
for the silly things that some
platforms list, right? The The idea here
is to
deal with questions, to gather the
consensus opinion
of people who are preferably experts or
are deep thinkers on the questions that
we're going to ask, and to gather their
consensus
so that we can all include that in our
decision-making and planning for the
future.
That was excellent. And first of all, I
think that's a great point, obviously,
that, you know, the stock market
contains both Microsoft and Nvidia, and
it also includes GameStop and market
stocks.
>> development.
>> Yeah, yeah. Like When GameStop happened,
we were all sort of in shock that people
were treating a stock as a token.
>> that's true. But, you know, I paid for
part of college trading penny stocks,
etc. So, I know that And if you go back
to, you know,
>> So, penny stocks are the original
prediction markets.
>> to the Jesse Livermore era of true
bucket shops, and it was like pretty
messy, etc. So, from your perspective,
right now, if we're talking about
prediction markets in the US, you know,
it's really heavily sports betting. Then
there's some election stuff, and then
there's some silly things, etc. First of
all, let's zoom out for the big
question. Do you think that eventually
institutional investors will use
prediction market-like instruments to
trade things like will there be a
recession in the year 2026? And do you
expect that these to become big volume
contracts at some point?
Definitely. I'm absolutely convinced.
So, the stock market gives us a venue to
to invest
in the future, basically in the future
of of different companies, but, you
know, some of
how those companies are actually going
to end up faring in the future has a lot
to do with the economic environment and
social environment in the future. And
basically, we are left to our own
devices to decipher what the future
holds. So, the prediction markets gives
an opportunity to gather experts around
who are not afraid to put their money on
the line and express what they think and
to collect a consensus opinion so that
we all know
what we can possibly expect if
is probably a better guess than what we
individually could come up with.
So, a lot of the prediction markets, one
of the problems that they currently have
is that volumes are still pretty low,
right? The markets are very illiquid.
When you talk to institutional
investors, you know, people you would
like to be clients on your platform,
which is called Forecast Trader, by the
way, what are the big hurdles for them?
Like, what are they What's stopping them
from going all in on prediction markets
at the moment? Well, at this point,
just it's very similar to any other
market. When it starts, liquidity is
always a big question, and it takes a
long time to gather sufficient
liquidity. If you look at, for example,
the options markets that have been
around now for
54 years, I think. Initially, there was
very little liquidity, and it was very
difficult to trade more than, say, 20 or
30 contracts at the time. Nowadays, you
can trade thousands or maybe even
millions of contracts. So, it it has
developed over the past five decades
really well and
stock market is basically similar.
What unlocked the
the liquidity? Was there a market design
choice? Like if you go back and you're
thinking about okay, the history of the
options market etc. Was it just time and
existence or were there certain either
regulatory or market structure decisions
that had to be made that truly unlock
the opportunity to take it to the next
level volume wise?
>> Yeah, but I think over time people have
become more familiar with the idea of
what an option is and it is a fairly
complex idea relative to what the
prediction markets are. That's why we
try to come up with something simpler
than options and as far as
that is concerned, I think we have done
that. So it is not going to be as
complex for people to understand a
prediction contract as it is to
understand an options contract. So
I think that it will not take equally
long time to develop sufficient
liquidity.
So when I go on forecast trader right
now, I see bets like you know, will the
United States economy enter a recession
by the end of the second quarter of 2026
or will 2026 be the warmest year on
record which as we were talking about
earlier, these are all things that I
would say have economic implications.
When you compare what Interactive
Brokers is doing versus say a Kalshi or
a Polymarket,
is that how you're trying to
differentiate yourself with more, you
know, quote serious economically serious
contracts? Is that your edge?
So don't forget that we are very
different companies. Interactive Brokers
has a large following of serious
successful institutional investors and
serious investors who are managing
relatively large portfolios on our
platform. Kalshi doesn't have that. So
for us prediction markets are an
addendum
that enables us to basically round out
our offering and our customers are now
have the ability to gauge such questions
and whether a recession, what how likely
a recession
is going to be.
Kalshi
has no
investors basically other than investors
in the prediction markets. So for them,
it's
first of all, it is hard to
maintain yourself only on up until it it
really takes off. It's hard to generate
enough trading volume to make a profit.
So they had to add things like sports
and of course that has become their
mainstay and they are now very
profitable due to sports. So if they
didn't do sports, maybe they couldn't
even support the platform. I don't know.
But just to be clear, do you get the
impression that from the perspective of
this broad institutional
world that's going to come to prediction
markets that one of your edges will be
this focus that you're not in sports,
that you're not in random pop culture,
that this is going to be contracts that
have the sort of quote serious investor
in mind. Is that part of why you really
have an edge in this space?
>> is
by choice. I mean, we prefer to to focus
and concentrate on serious questions
having to do with our clients'
investments.
Maybe some of them would like us to have
sports, but we just don't want to
distract them with that.
>> Say more about that. So how are you
actually choosing the contracts that
you're presenting as options to
investors?
So we are choosing contracts that in our
minds have questions, the answers to
which have serious economic
consequences.
So for example, global warming, I think
is a huge question.
Maybe not this year, but 10 20 years
from now it certainly will be or the
rate of adoption of AI or I mean, you
know, really significant questions that
that basically will determine how we
live our lives 10 to 20 years from now
and therefore it's important for us to
have questions for to those answers so
that people that that enter schools
today or decide to buy a house somewhere
or decide what profession they are going
to study and develop into, these sorts
of questions deserve to have serious
answers
so that they can decide what to do.
>> [music]
[music]
>> IBKR of of the brokerage platforms that
a retailish person could access, always
been like one of the most sophisticated
in terms of the wide range of
instruments that are available from
stocks to bonds to futures etc. Is this
the first time that you have a sort of
your own market that you built on the
platform rather than IBKR simply being a
window
or a venue to trade on some other
market? Is this new for you?
In a big way, yes. We we've never done
anything as large as this that is so
different than
what already existed. But as we were
going along building out the platform
over the last almost five decades, we
certainly have always been on the edge
of trying to bring in new things. Sure.
And uh But in terms of like okay, like
if I trade a share of Microsoft on IBKR,
there are established exchanges that
presumably that trade is going to be
routed through. Whereas with forecast
trader, you are the market, you're the
broker and the venue at the same time.
And part of what's novel about
prediction markets generally
is this thing where the broker and the
market venue are fusing in a way that
has not been the case historically with
say CME futures, it's not been the same
way with stocks. So from a market
structure standpoint,
is IBKR in a new position by the fact
that it's essentially both the broker
and the exchange for these instruments?
You're you're probably correct in that
although the app had in the past started
several
indexes and and various futures
contracts, but
indexes and futures contracts, different
ones, but they already existed. Yeah.
>> So the prediction market as such is yes,
it's you are correct. It's the first
market where nothing have has existed
like it.
Actually, on that note, you know, I
alluded to your history in the markets,
very long history and formative history,
but how come we didn't get prediction
markets sooner? You know, like we could
have been betting on global warming five
or 10 years ago and it doesn't seem
until I I was reading about prediction
markets a long time ago.
>> We started developing the prediction
markets roughly 10 years ago.
And the problem was that we had some
consultants of the firm that were doing
some other work
and they found out that we were working
on prediction markets
and at that time we were trying to go
for a banking license and they said,
well, you will never get your banking
license
if you come out with this prediction
market. As a matter of fact, the SEC
will not take kindly to it and you will
have all kinds of problems if you really
do this. So what we did, we we already
had built the whole system. So what we
did was we released it for phantom
money.
Oh.
And people were playing around
on it
for phantom money and it eventually
petered out because phantom money is not
really interesting.
>> Yeah. And but it
it took hold enough for the people who
founded Polymarket and Kalshi to see it
and to play with it and then they had a
better idea and they went forward with
it and you know, Kalshi went to Mazur,
went to the CFTC and got himself
licensed.
And
I was really upset when I saw that and
then of course, you see, it was easy for
him because they had nothing. So they
had nothing to lose. You see, the
problem is that when you have a when you
have a flourishing business, it's very
hard to do new things because the
downside is so big for you. So he went
ahead and then I wanted to buy Kalshi,
but he wouldn't they wouldn't entertain
a sale.
And they didn't even give me a price.
Huh. So
>> What year was that? Then I Sorry? What
year was that that you were trying to
buy it?
Ooh, I think about 5 years ago.
>> Oh, wow.
That was going to be my next question.
Why didn't you just buy Kalshi at that
point? What Are you going to Is it So
then I went to the CFTC and I asked for
my own license. And they took 3 years to
to work it through and give it to us,
but we eventually got it last year.
How big
>> Actually, we got it in 2024, just before
the elections, yeah. Wait, this is
interesting. So I was just about to ask
you, like was it the election that
enabled you to get into it, but it
sounds like actually you would have been
able to get into the space even without
the change in administration. Well,
look, I mean, I mean, I'm in a very
lucky circumstance where we have a
flourishing profitable business, so we
can support this crazy addiction
to the of
the prediction markets that is basically
a loss leader. And we are very sure that
eventually it will be very profitable.
I'm just One other quick market
structure-ish question. Are you going to
provide leverage? How does that work for
these instruments for your institution?
>> on that right now.
Up to now it's been a very easy
situation because we've not See, a
broker always has to worry about
providing leverage. So most brokerage
firms when they go bust because of the
leverage they provide. And if you look
at the big Wall Street crisis, they all
have to do with leverage always.
>> Yeah. So but eventually we will have to
provide leverage. The question is how do
you struct structure that? And that is
going to be
I'm sure there will be some firms that
will go bust on leverage in prediction
markets, yes. Mhm.
Do you see a world where, I guess,
prediction market prices kind of kind of
become standard reference data, like the
same way we look up credit spreads or
something like
>> absolutely, yeah. Ce- certainly,
certainly. You know, right now you're
saying that is the say the Fed going to
cut rates or not? I mean, yeah. People
are consulting economists and say that's
that's what the consensus is opinion is,
but it's not as clear as just look at
the a
clean probability that the prediction
market provides from just just one plain
number to see what the probability is
that Wait, why is it not as clear?
Because
>> consensus opinion. Cuz I can go
>> Sorry? I can go to the bond market and
back out what the bond market thinks
about future Fed moves, and that's a
huge market. Why would you need the
prediction market to do that? Well, no,
you can go to the Fed funds market, not
the bond market.
You can go to the Fed funds market.
That's that
that is true, but that's another
interesting thing. So Fed funds markets
existed for a long time, and it only
recently that people really consult the
Fed fund markets when they are wondering
about rates and no longer talk to the
economists. Mhm. Because just 2 years
ago
people
kept talking about what which economist
says what, right? One day we're never
going to have to consult economists
again. I That's That's like That's like
the trader's dream, cuz traders
>> That's the world prediction markets are
going to
>> No, I think you see, I think that what
will happen is that economists
will be begin to participate in the
prediction markets.
>> Mhm. And instead of issuing their
predictions, they will trade their own
positions and good ones will make a lot
of money and bad ones will lose.
But can we be, just among the three of
us here, and no one else
>> Yes, just among the three of us
>> the three of us here for a second. Like
traders
you guys really don't like economists,
do you? Like you hold You do not hold
them in particularly high esteem, right?
Like let's be honest. It's It's just the
three of us chatting here. Well, for a
trader, an economist is very confusing
because it depends on which one you talk
to, right?
>> [laughter]
>> The prediction markets cure that
deficiency, right?
>> Yeah.
So right now you could go to Robinhood
and you could trade markets on You could
trade Kalshi markets via Robinhood. And
we had the CEO of Robinhood on Vlad
Tenev, and they also might build be
building their own prediction markets
venue.
Is there ever a scenario in which IBKR
both has a its own prediction market,
but is also a broker that would allow a
user I could like trade futures via my
IBKR account?
Absolutely. So we are coming out at the
end of May with a consolidated feed
>> Huh. where
contracts that exist on several other
platforms we we we will have
consolidated so that we when somebody
comes to us, Interactive Brokers, to
look at the market, we will give them
with the consolidated feed, just like we
do on stocks where stocks trade on, I
don't know, 20 or so markets, and we
always have the best bid and offer, and
we always provide best executions based
on all the possible venues where that
stock trades, and we will do the same
thing on prediction markets.
That makes a lot of sense, that analogy
of like best execution. The one issue
that I could see arising, and I'm
curious your thoughts, like a share of
Microsoft
is a share of Microsoft regardless of
whatever however number of exchanges it
trades on. A bet on a US recession could
be different depend because then it gets
down to contract specifications and how
Kalshi defines when a recession is
triggered could be different than how a
different platform defines the same
thing. So how much of this is going in
terms of the future of the industry is
going to depend on a certain degree of
alignment among platforms
Yeah, fungibility to
align across contract specifications,
and is there work being done on that? So
so fungibility is a great issue, and it
is in the interest of the market
participants
to to create as much fungibility as
possible. So accordingly, we are going
to structure our contracts to be
identical. Okay. Mhm. Whenever it's
possible.
That's interesting. Can we go back to
making fun of economists for 1 second?
But you know, you made the point that
when you're talking to economists, it
depends on whether you're talking to a
good one. And part of the whole idea of
prediction markets is you incentivize
people with good information to express
their opinions in exchange for money.
Recently, there's been the issue of I
don't even want to say insider trading
or insider information because I don't
know what constitutes insider trading or
insider information in the prediction
market, but there's been a sense that
we've had a few political developments,
and there've been big trades on
prediction markets ahead of some of
those. Maybe someone knows something
ahead of time and they're betting on it.
I don't know if that's wrong per se or
illegal per se, but when you talk to
institutional clients how concerned are
they about the perception of insider
trading on these platforms?
So insider trading has always been
an issue.
I mean, early on when I started my
career, I I lost half my initial capital
based on insider trade. Mhm. So I'm
extremely familiar with with the damage
it can cause. But on the other hand
and in spite of that, I'm in favor of
not having any rules against insider
trading. I would like all the
information out there as soon as it's
available.
Because, look as a society, we're better
off knowing as soon as possible anything
that is knowable, right? So why do we
have to wait several First of all, when
you face with a merger or acquisition
situation where most of the insider
trading is happening, right? The
secretaries, the lawyers, everybody
knows about it. They go home, they tell
their wives, their husbands, they So it
it eventually always filters out. So
it's almost impossible to avoid. It's
very, very difficult and cumbersome. Why
don't we just
do away with it and let the information
come out as soon as possible? Sorry,
just to be clear, when you say this,
you're talking about all markets here,
not just prediction markets.
>> All markets.
>> Okay, so even in the stock market. The
counter One counter argument I can think
of a couple of counter arguments, yeah.
>> But one counter argument would be liquid
capital markets are a very good thing
for the economy. And why would I ever
want to participate
in a capital market if it's known that
there are going to be sharks, etc. that
are just like give such an information
that I could never win. And so
yes, I
Yeah.
>> you see there are sharks not right now.
But if they if there if insider
information just came out as soon as
possible, there would be very little
opportunity for the sharks to to be
around because you could be a shark for
a second or two, but that's it. Nowadays
sharks can be around for
weeks and months.
Another argument would be that from a
corporate perspective, I don't want all
my secrets to be monetizable so easily.
So like I want to be able to share
information with a group of people
inside and not have to worry that
>> protect them yourself. Don't rely on on
national laws to to protect you. I mean,
protect them yourself. I'll just stop
talking to them.
Yeah. Wait, I want to hear more about
you mentioned that you lost a bunch of
money half your Yeah, yeah.
Tell us tell us that story.
>> from insider trading. What's that Yeah,
what's that about?
So
So when I
I bought my seats on the American Stock
Exchange as an options trader in 1977.
And I had $200,000
of saved capital that I started my
option trading business with on the
floor of the
American Stock Exchange.
And maybe a a year or so later I was
standing in DuPont and in those days
options were trading in 16ths and 8ths.
And it was a you know, day before
expiration
and
there was a very cheap out of the money
call that was to be expired the next day
and somebody came in and in according to
my fair value sheets that I
only I had in those days
because [snorts] I had my own options
formula and I I generated the sheets for
myself. That option was worth about $25,
$26
and somebody came in and offered it at
3/8, which is $18. Offered to me 300 of
those options at $18 and I bought all
300, which was at that time the biggest
trade I've ever done. And just as the
broker walks out another broker walks in
and he says, "Where can I buy 500 of
these?" Oh. And nobody said anything.
Everybody was stunned and I said, "3/8."
And he said, "Okay, how many?" I said,
"500." I I was so overwhelmed by the
amount of profit I was suddenly making
in a 5-minute period of time that I
gave up all caution and I sold him the
500. So I was as a result 200 short.
And then in the next several minutes the
stock halted trading and half an hour
later it reopened with the news that
DuPont had a fantastic quarter and they
were splitting the stock three to three
for one Mhm. and it opened way way up.
So the option I sold 200 of net for 3/8
opened at $4.5.
Mhm.
I can see why you would be traumatized
by insider trading.
>> Right. And yet
>> I was really traumatized. I lost $90,000
and it was horrible, but
I still say to you that
I think the best thing we could do about
inside information is just to get the
news out there as fast as possible and
forget about prosecuting people.
I love that idea also that you had your
own fair value sheets, which I you know,
I presume those were sheets that were
actually written down at that time in
your pocket.
>> generated. I had a computer at home and
I had developed my own option formula
in
well, much earlier in
in 1970. And you were carrying them
around on pieces of paper on the floor?
Yeah, I had folded up in all my pockets.
Okay, so so on this note, I mean, you
were one of the earliest people to
automate market making. That's what
you're famous for and you've been
through the whole transition from humans
actually trading on the floor to
everything being automated nowadays.
Obviously AI is this huge thing in the
market and in our lives right now. When
you look at AI and compare it to the
early days of electronic trading
what's similar and what's what feels
different to you now? Is this just
another technological improvement,
another wave of you know, productivity
enhancing tech or is this something
fundamentally new in your mind? Well,
it's a huge leap in technological
development, but but it's basically as a
computer programmer
I look at it
basically as a new higher level language
that is much much much much more
powerful than anything that came before,
but qualitatively is not different than
the way we went from machine language to
assembler language to Fortran and Cobol
and eventually C and
all the other languages. So this is a
natural language. So AI is basically a
higher level language, which is a
natural language and it also has to it
available all the data that
exists in the world. So that's why it is
so immensely powerful. But as far as
trading is concerned basically automated
trading has existed for a long time. We
have started our first automated trading
systems in 1983
and continued developing that ever since
and then eventually when
other traders came in and bought out the
order flow from
>> [clears throat]
>> brokerage firms, we didn't think that
we should do that. So then we went out
of the market making business. But up to
that point we were the largest market
makers in [music] the world.
>> [music]
>> God, I have so many
>> [laughter]
>> I have so many questions. Actually, can
we just go back real quickly to the
options pricing model that you have?
It's funny, this is the second time in a
few weeks someone was telling me about
an I've been in a conversation about
options trading in the early days. What
were you programming that in? What
language and was it the kind of thing
where like you would leave the computers
running overnight and then you could
like come back in the morning and after
No. Like cuz that
>> [laughter]
>> Tell Tell us about like the technology
that enabled you to determine fair
market value of options back then.
So I had an Olivetti computer at home, a
desktop Olivetti desktop computer
>> Okay. at home and when I started to
think about options, I started to run a
lot of simulations and see at what
prices I would break even and then
eventually derived the idea of a
probability distribution curve based on
which I would determine the prices of
options that after selling to myself
many options, I would break even at
which price and that's how I determined
what the correct value for an option is.
And that eventually that turned into a
formula and code. So I I used that
computer and if you go to Interactive
Brokers today, there is something we
call probability lab where we can we can
display where we do display the
probability distribution associated with
the future price changes of any stock
>> Oh, yeah.
>> that we derive from the existing option
prices. So you can see that there and
you can basically learn about options
I never saw this page before, but this
makes a lot of sense to me and I'm
always been a little bit surprised that
you don't hear more about translating
option math into sort of normal
intuitive odds cuz it seems like a very
normal thing. One other question, you
know, you mentioned AI as being like a
new the next iteration, maybe the last
iteration because it's natural language
of computer programming. But most
computer programming is like it's
deterministic, right? So if you write a
line of code, it will do the same thing
every single time. There's some rule and
it'll always be the same. You put in the
same query into chat GPT, you will not
always get the same output. In fact,
frequently you won't even with the exact
same query of anything. When you're
thinking about applications of AI within
finance, etc., does the
non-deterministic element of
AI models change
>> language, right? That's why it is not
always the same. It's
probabilistic, it's not deterministic.
Right.
Does that have implications for its use
in finance?
Well, option prices are probabilistic.
Prediction markets are probabilistic.
That's what my initial impetus was for
prediction markets to teach people
probabilities because people tend to not
think probabilistically. They tend to
think well, either this will happen or
will not happen and that somebody knows
and that's not how it is. There is a
There's a probability for something to
happen, and nobody knows what really
will happen, right?
Do you know how to code in COBOL?
In COBOL I can Well, I COBOL I cannot,
but I can code in FORTRAN or Forth or or
BASIC or
C
number of languages, yes.
You know you could be making a lot of
money fixing [laughter] old mainframe
systems and integrating them. Have you
considered doing that?
Yeah. Just going back sort of full
circle to to the prediction markets.
I basically, you know, you're probably
right. One day they'll be big. What's
the time frame? What do you Do you have
like a testable theory? Can you give us
a number for how big you think they'll
be?
You know, we don't want to treat you
like some economist who just makes a
forecast that could never be tested or
whatever. We want something hard. So
like, can you give us like, you know,
end of 2027, do you have like or end of
2026, how big will they be so that we
could come back and we could say, was
Tomas correct about how big this space
is going to be or not? Well, there is
>> [laughter]
>> I don't think there is a There is a good
way to
to
I mean, I'm more than astonished than
than I read the
these projections from consulting firms
about how big some something will be
some many years ahead of time. I have no
idea how to evaluate that, but all I
think All I know is that it's going to
be very, very big because it's extremely
useful. And it's a it's a very simple
way for all of us to direct our
decision-making
a prediction market and to hedge our
decision-making. I was just I was just
going to say, Tracy, I noticed one of
the contracts that they have on IBKR is
will UCLA's out-of-state tuition exceed
$53,000 in 2026? As someone who has
children who like in the next decade are
going to go to college, I was like, this
could be a very useful thing for me to
hedge at some point. Like, my daughter
heard that there's a good
theater school. She said on UCLA
already. Yeah, UCLA. She said, I heard
there's a good theater school at
University of Michigan. And so I have to
start thinking about like University of
Michigan out-of-state tuition.
>> Kids these days are very focused.
>> But this could be a very useful
instrument for me.
Absolutely. College tuitions are We've
been thinking about listing them at one
point.
Wait, can I ask
a conceptual question, which is like
if prediction markets really take off
and we have more and more money that is
being placed on whether or not the
actual event itself happens, what does
that mean for capital markets? Because I
think about capital markets, you know,
everyone in finance for years and years
and years said this is about the
efficient allocation of capital into
productive industry. And one way of
betting on the future of the US economy
would be by buying US equities, and that
money goes into companies and it creates
jobs in a feedback loop and all of that.
If I'm just betting on the actual
outcome, what does it mean for
actually funding economic activity? So
so so So the money you put at risk, but
the money is not laying around. The
broker will take that money and put it
into treasury bills, right? So,
as you know, there is an awful lot of
money that is in treasury bills, and
that's financing our deficit. And so
that's where you your money will be
employed. From a regulatory standpoint,
is there anything right now that you
think the CFTC could or should be doing
to further to further along this market?
No, I I think the big regulatory problem
is that
there are many questions concerning
specific companies that we would love to
ask, but we do not know if the question
would be a security or a commodity. And
do not know who should properly regulate
it. And therefore, we don't ask these
questions. But it would be extremely
useful for us to be able to ask about,
you know, the future developments of
Nvidia or Microsoft or Google or etc.
This could be like contracts either
related to will they beat or miss their
earnings estimates. It could be
contracts related to when will they or
the number of employees that they will
have or the average salary that I will
have or etc. But the problem is that the
price of Google is a security. You know
that. The price of the shares are
securities. So the legislation says that
anything
any
anything that has
an impact on the stock price
would be
on the financial statement would be a
security. So there's a lot of stuff that
has
an impact on the financial statement,
but
nobody is listing it in any way. So if
this quagmire would have to be cleaned
up,
and then we would have a much better
market.
It sounds like we need to merge the SEC
and the CFTC.
That [laughter] would be great.
All right, Tomas Peterffy. Thank you so
much for coming on Odd Lots. Really
appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
>> [music]
>> Joe, that was an interesting
conversation.
>> That was great. I was not expecting
Tomas to be I don't You know, I I maybe
I should have, but it's interesting to
hear him completely to say let's get rid
of insider trading laws.
>> Yeah. Clearly that was a formative
experience for him, and perhaps he wants
to be on the side of the people that
made money in that transaction
[laughter]
rather than the people that lost out.
The other thing I thought was really
interesting was
the history with Kalshi. Yeah, I which I
hadn't appreciated. Yeah.
>> this is going to be like such a
interesting space. It's a weird
industry, I think, prediction markets.
Because it's an industry that basically
is two companies right now, which barely
counts as an industry.
>> Mhm. But we know from having talked to
Vlad at Robinhood they're going to like
build their own, and then now obviously
IBKR is, you know, has its own. There's
a few interesting questions, but one is
like where is the value going to accrue?
Is it going to be like the venue where
the trading is? Is it going to be who
has the distribution? Because obviously
Robinhood and IBKR have incredible
distribution via the fact that lots of
people do other trading on there. It
still feels like very much a jump ball
in terms of who makes the money in this
space.
>> Totally. Well, the other thing that was
interesting was the idea of creating
standardized contracts
>> Yeah, yeah. for, you know, something
more fungible. And then I wonder, well,
if you do that, do you have to create
like an ISDA-type body that's going to
adjudicate on these things?
>> Right. Yeah, no, that's that's going to
be like a huge question. My gut is that
Tomas is right. Like if he is saying
these are going to be a really big
thing, and he's like traders are going
to want to have these instruments, who
am I to disagree? Like I maybe like they
won't be big for like random pop culture
stuff, but are they going to be big for
like recession things and stuff like
that? If Tomas thinks so, then I think
so. That's That's where I stand.
>> It does feel like the steady march of
progress is sort of in this direction.
But progress. Progress. It feels
inevitable, but also, I mean, it's hard
not to He mentioned GameStop, and it's
hard not to think back to just, you
know, what, 5 years ago now? When
GameStop happened, it was such a big
story precisely because it was such a
departure from the way people had
treated stock markets previously. Yeah,
but you know what? I agree completely,
but I had a thought actually when he
said that that
which is, you know, for a long time and
there's the famous quote equities in
Dallas, and it's like there was a period
not that long ago in American financial
history where stocks themselves were not
regarded as a particularly important
market in and of themselves. Otherwise,
they wouldn't have talked about how the
stock traders would have had to move out
to Dallas. That's a phrase because the
perception was that stocks weren't
really actually this. And so it occurs
to me like, yes, when GameStop came out,
that's like everyone was like clutching
their pearls and scandalized that the
market me included. It was like, oh,
people are treating it like a joke.
>> call me a grandma. I know
that's where you're going. It's fine.
>> no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, you know, maybe we
shouldn't hold it up on such a pedestal.
There's always been penny stocks.
There's always been the pink sheets. The
bucket shops or whatever they called
were there for a very long time. There
was the curb market where people were
just trading. Like maybe the era in
which the stock market is like this very
serious thing and like maybe that was
Maybe that's kind of the exception. Is
the theme of this conversation just give
up, basically?
>> just saying like I'm just saying like
maybe maybe there's something to this
idea. It's always all these markets have
always been a little bit of a There's
been a
>> [snorts]
>> There's been a I don't know what a What
word are you going to use here?
>> know. I was not seedy, but all entertain
I don't know. Like
>> Embrace the seediness.
>> Yeah, something like that. Yeah. Okay.
On that note, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there. All right. This
has been another episode of the Odd Lots
podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at the
Stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dasho Bennett
at Dashbot, and Caleb Brooks at Caleb
Brooks. And for more Odd Lots content,
go to bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots. [music]
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when we talk about prediction
markets, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg [music] subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
ad-free. All you need to do is find
[music] the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcasts and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
>> [music]
>> Ooh.